Fastly CLI (#2045)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/cache/fastly.md

    Fastly. See [documentation on how to do that](https://docs.platform.sh/guides/ibexa/fastly.html)

## Quick setup of Fastly for use with Ibexa DXP

Below are the few commands needed in order to install the required VCL configurtion for running Fastly with Ibexa DXP.
In addition, you also need to set up domains, https and origin configuration (not covered here). What the various commands
do are explained later on this page:

```
fastly vcl custom create --name "ez_main.vcl" --version=active --autoclone --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/ --version=latest --main
fastly vcl custom create --name "ez_user_hash.vcl" --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/ez_user_hash.vcl --version=latest
fastly vcl snippet create --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=latest --priority 100 --type recv --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/snippet_re_enable_shielding.vcl
fastly service-version activate --version=latest activate
```

!!! note "None of the steps above are needed when using Ibexa Cloud as this is then preconfigured for you"

## Quick introduction to the Fastly CLI

> The Fastly configuration is versioned. That means that when you want to alter the configuration, you'll create a new version
> and activate it. You then may at any point revert back to a previous version if needed.

Author: White space issue in your suggestion, so
```suggestion
The Fastly configuration is versioned, it means that when you want to alter the configuration, you'll create a new version
and activate it. You may then at any point revert back to a previous version if needed.
```

### List configuration versions

```
fastly service-version list
NUMBER  ACTIVE  LAST EDITED (UTC)
1       false   2023-07-03 10:01
2       false   2023-07-03 10:35
3       false   2023-07-03 11:00
4       false   2023-07-03 11:28
5       false   2023-07-03 10:58
6       false   2023-07-03 11:59
7       false   2023-07-03 12:13
8       true    2023-07-03 12:13
```

In the example above, version 8 is the current version being used (ACTIVE=true).

### Create a new configuration version

A version that is ACTIVE cannot be modified. In order to change some configuration, you'll need to create a new version:

Clone the current active version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=active
```

Clone a particular version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=4
```

Clone the newest version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=latest
```

> !!! note "The --version parameter"

Author: Fixed in ec5a7b0e043a1fda3119c9f54250bbabd7af1300

Most Fastly CLI commands have the `--version` parameter. The `--version` parameter always supports aliases like `active`
and `latest` in additional to a specific version number.

!!! note "The --autoclone parameter"
Most Fastly CLI commands that alter the config also supports the `--autoclone` parameter so that explicitly calling
`fastly service-version clone` is often not needed if the using the `--autoclone` parameter is prefered.

> 

Author: Fixed in ec5a7b0e043a1fda3119c9f54250bbabd7af1300

  ```
- Make a description of the change in Fastly's version system
  ```
    $ fastly service-version update --version=latest --comment="Added feature X"
  ```
- Activate the new version
  ```
    fastly service-version activate --version=latest
  ```

## Snippets

You may also add VCL code to the Fastly configuration without modifying the custom VCLs directly. You may do that by creating
[snippets](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets). It is recommended to use snippets instead of changing
the VCL files provided by Ibexa DXP as much as possible, making it easier to later upgrade the Ibexa DXP VCLs.
When you use snippets, the snippet code is injected into the VCL where the `#FASTLY ...` macros are placed.
For instance, if you create a snippet for the `recv` subroutine, it will be injected into the `ez_main.vcl` file on the
line where `#FASTLY recv` is found.

### List available snippets for a particular version

```
$ fastly vcl snippet list --version=active
SERVICE ID              VERSION  NAME                            DYNAMIC  SNIPPET ID
KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up    8        Re-Enable shielding on restart  false    1iJWIfsPLNGxcphsjggq

```

> !!! note "As of version 3.3.24, 4.1.6 and 4.2.0, Ibexa DXP also requires one snippet installed, in addition to the custom vcls `ez_main.vcl` and `ez_user_hash.vcl`. That snippet is by default named `Re-Enable shielding on restart`"

Author: Fixed in ec5a7b0e043a1fda3119c9f54250bbabd7af1300, removed header as I saw used elsewhere in the docs

You use the Fastly API to download the generated VCL. This generated VCL is the vcl config that Fastly generates based on all the configuration settings ( so it includes all custom .vcls, snippets, origin config, just everything).

The example below extracts the generated vcl for version no. 11 of some service
```
curl -i  "https://api.fastly.com/service/[FASTLY_SERVICE_ID]/version/11/generated_vcl" -H "Fastly-Key: [FASTLY_API_TOKEN]" -H "Accept: application/json" > generated_vcl_11_raw
cp generated_vcl_11_raw generated_vcl_11_json_only
```

Next, you need to edit generated_vcl_11_json_only in your favourite editor, remove anything before the json data and save.
Then, do the same steps again for version no. 12 (or whatever version you want to diff version 11 against)

Then replace \n in the files in order to give human-readable diffs:

```
cat generated_vcl_11_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_11_json_done
cat generated_vcl_12_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

Finally, you can use GNU diff to and get a readable diff of the two versions:

```
diff -ruN generated_vcl_11_json_done generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

> ## Enabling Basic-Auth on Fastly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling basic-auth on Fastly.
```

> In order to enable basic-auth, you can use https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/http-basic-auth as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable basic-auth, use https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/http-basic-auth as an example.
```

> Here is a step-by-step guide on how to make that work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below.
```

> Usernames and password can be stored inside vcl, but we'll instead store them in a [dictionary](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-dictionaries-using-the-web-interface#working-with-dictionaries-using-vcl-snippets)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usernames and passwords can be stored inside vcl, but in these case it will be stored in a [dictionary](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-dictionaries-using-the-web-interface#working-with-dictionaries-using-vcl-snippets)
```

Author: @juskora : not "this case" ?

Author: ping @juskora

Reviewer: This case, yes you're right, sorry my bad.

> !!! note "In order to make this example work, you must run Ibexa DXP 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5."

Reviewer: Please split it into header and text.

Author: I see elsewhere in the doc that header is not required.. So this is fine, right ?
```suggestion
!!! note
    In order to make this example work, you must run Ibexa DXP 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.
```
@juskora

### Create the dictionary and activate the change:

```
fastly dictionary create --version=active --autoclone --name=basicauth
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

> From now on, our Fastly configuration has a dictionary named `basicauth`. The benefit of using a dictionary vs storing
> the usernames directly in vcl is that we can add/remove records to it without creating and activating new versions of our configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the Fastly configuration has a dictionary named `basicauth`. The benefit of using a dictionary than storing
the usernames directly in vcl is that we can add or remove records without creating and activating new versions of the configuration.
```

> ### Obtain the dictionary ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get the dictionary ID
```

> In order to add users to the dictionary, we first need to get the dictionary ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add users to the dictionary, first get the dictionary ID.
```

```
fastly dictionary list --version=active

Service ID: KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up
Version: 3
ID: ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW
Name: basicauth
Write Only: false
Created (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
Last edited (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
```

In the example above, the ID is `ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW`.

### Create a record in the dictionary ( user name and password )

```
fastly dictionary-item create --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW --key=user1 --value=foobar1
```

### List dictionary records

You may see the records of a dictionary using:

```
fastly dictionary-item list --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW33
```

> Now we have a dictionary storing a user name and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly .vcl configration.
> and add the basic-auth support. 
> In this example, we'll do that using snippets (https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets ) so that no changes
> are need in the .vcl files shipped by Ibexa DXP. You need two snippets, store these as files on your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have a dictionary storing a user name and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly .vcl configration.
and add the basic-auth support. 
In this example, do that using snippets (https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets ) so that no changes
are need in the .vcl files shipped by Ibexa DXP. You need two snippets, store these as files on your system:
```

declare local var.result STRING;

# We only check basic auth on edge nodes. This below logic makes sure this is only run at the edge.
if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0) {
  if (req.http.Authorization ~ "(?i)^Basic ([a-z0-9_=]+)$") {
    set var.credential = digest.base64_decode(re.group.1);
    set var.username = if(var.credential ~ "^(.+?):.+$", re.group.1, "");
    set var.password = if(var.credential ~ "^.+?:(.+)$", re.group.1, "");
    set var.result = table.lookup(basicauth, var.username, "NOTFOUND");

    if (var.result == "NOTFOUND") {
      error 401 "Restricted";
    } else if (var.result != var.password) {
      error 401 "Restricted";
    }
    #We unset the Auth header to avoid exposing this as a response header.
    unset req.http.Authorization;
    set req.http.Auth-User = var.username;
  } else {
    error 401 "Restricted";
  }
}
```

If you want basic-auth to be enabled only for one domain, you may alter `snippet_basic_auth_recv.vcl`
```diff
-if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0 &&) {
+if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0 && req.http.host == "example.com") {
```

> You install the snippets using the Fastly CLI like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You install the snippets using the Fastly CLI as the following:
```

# Configure and customize Fastly

You can configure Fastly using API calls or through the Fastly Web Interface. Fastly provides a [Fastly CLI](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/cli/) for configuring Fastly through its API.

!!! note "The Fastly Web Interface is not available for Ibexa Cloud"
    It's recommend for Ibexa Cloud customers to use the Fastly CLI instead of using the Fastly API directly with `curl`, and so on.

## Getting the Fastly credentials from an Ibexa Cloud installation

In order to use the Fastly CLI or the Fastly API directly, you need to obtain the credentials for your site. The
credentials can be obtained by ssh'ing into your Fastly-enabled environment (for example, production or staging) and

> type the command:

Author: ```suggestion
type the commands:
```

!!! note "Varnish needs to be disabled when using Fastly"
    Varnish is automatically provisioned on Ibexa Cloud. Varnish needs to be disabled on all environments which use
    Fastly. See [documentation on how to do that](https://docs.platform.sh/guides/ibexa/fastly.html)

## Quick setup of Fastly to use with Ibexa DXP

Below are the few commands needed in order to install the required VCL configurtion for running Fastly with Ibexa DXP.
In addition, you also need to set up domains, https and origin configuration (not covered here). What the various commands
do are explained later on this page:

```
fastly vcl custom create --name "ez_main.vcl" --version=active --autoclone --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/ --version=latest --main
fastly vcl custom create --name "ez_user_hash.vcl" --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/ez_user_hash.vcl --version=latest
fastly vcl snippet create --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=latest --priority 100 --type recv --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/snippet_re_enable_shielding.vcl
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

> !!! note "None of the steps above are needed when using Ibexa Cloud as this is then preconfigured for you"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! note "None of the steps are needed when you use Ibexa Cloud, because Fastly then comes preconfigured."
```

Also, please specify, which steps exactly - just the one command in this paragraph, or both "Get credentials..." and "Quickly set..."?
I would list the section titles explicitly to avoid confusion.

8       true    2023-07-03 12:13
```

In the example above, version 8 is the current version being used (ACTIVE=true).

### Create a new configuration version

A version that is ACTIVE cannot be modified. In order to change some configuration, you need to create a new version:

Clone the current active version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=active
```

Clone a particular version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=4
```

Clone the newest version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=latest
```

!!! note "The --version parameter"
    Most Fastly CLI commands have the `--version` parameter. The `--version` parameter always supports aliases like `active`
    and `latest` in additional to a specific version number.

!!! note "The --autoclone parameter"
    Most Fastly CLI commands that alter the config also supports the `--autoclone` parameter so that explicitly calling
    `fastly service-version clone` is often not needed if the using the `--autoclone` parameter is prefered.

### Activate version:

Activate a version using the command:

```
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

## Viewing and modifying the VCL configuration

> The Fastly configuration is stored in [Varnish Configuration Language (VCL)](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/uploading-custom-vcl). By uploading custom VCL files
> you can change the behaviour of Fastly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Fastly configuration is stored in [Varnish Configuration Language (VCL)](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/uploading-custom-vcl). 
You can change the behaviour of Fastly by uploading custom VCL files.
```

## Snippets

You may also add VCL code to the Fastly configuration without modifying the custom VCLs directly. Do that by creating
[snippets](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets). It is recommended to use snippets instead of changing
the VCL files provided by Ibexa DXP as much as possible, making it easier to later upgrade the Ibexa DXP VCLs.
When you use snippets, the snippet code is injected into the VCL where the `#FASTLY ...` macros are placed.
For example, if you create a snippet for the `recv` subroutine, it will be injected into the `ez_main.vcl` file on the
line where `#FASTLY recv` is found.

### List available snippets for a particular version

```
$ fastly vcl snippet list --version=active
SERVICE ID              VERSION  NAME                            DYNAMIC  SNIPPET ID
KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up    8        Re-Enable shielding on restart  false    1iJWIfsPLNGxcphsjggq

```

!!! note
    As of version 3.3.24, 4.1.6 and 4.2.0, Ibexa DXP also requires one snippet to be installed, in addition to the custom vcls `ez_main.vcl` and `ez_user_hash.vcl`. That snippet is by default named `Re-Enable shielding on restart`

### Get the details of installed snippets

> You can get more information, like priority, which subroutine it is attached to (`vcl_recv`, `vcl_fetch` etc. ) and the code itself using the `--verbose` option when using the `vcl snippet list` command:

Author: @MagdalenaZuba  : maybe "information such as" instead of "such information as" ?

set req.http.X-Snippet-Loaded = "v1";

Created at: 2022-06-23 10:55:34 +0000 UTC
Updated at: 2022-06-23 12:24:48 +0000 UTC

```

You can also get the same details for a particular snippet using the `vcl snippet describe` command :

```
fastly vcl snippet describe --version=active "--name=Re-Enable shielding on restart"
```

### Create a snippet

```
fastly vcl snippet create --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=active --autoclone --priority 100 --type recv --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/snippet_re_enable_shielding.vcl
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

### Delete a snippet

```
fastly vcl snippet delete --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=active --autoclone
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

### Update an existing snippet

```
fastly vcl snippet update --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=active --autoclone --priority 100 --type recv --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/snippet_re_enable_shielding.vcl
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

### Get the diff between two versions

> Using the Fastly web interface you can easily see the diff between two different versions. Unfortunately, this is not supported by the Fastly CLI. However, it is possible with the help of the Fastly API and GNU diff.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using the Fastly web interface you can easily view the diff between two different versions. Unfortunately, Fastly CLI does not support this functionality. However, Fastly API and GNU diff can help you get an identical result.
```

> Use the Fastly API to download the generated VCL. This generated VCL is the vcl config that Fastly generates based on all the configuration settings (so it includes all custom .vcls, snippets, origin config).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Fastly API to download the generated VCL file. It includes the VCL configuration that Fastly generates based on all the configuration settings (from all custom `.vcl` files, snippets, and origin configuration).
```

If "origin" is used in a meaning of "original", please replace here and in other occurrences.

cp generated_vcl_11_raw generated_vcl_11_json_only
```

Next, you need to edit generated_vcl_11_json_only in your favourite editor, remove anything before the json data and save.
Then, do the same steps again for version no. 12 (or whatever version you want to diff version 11 against)

Then replace \n in the files in order to give human-readable diffs:

```
cat generated_vcl_11_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_11_json_done
cat generated_vcl_12_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

Finally, you can use GNU diff to and get a readable diff of the two versions:

```
diff -ruN generated_vcl_11_json_done generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

## Enabling basic-auth on Fastly.

To enable basic-auth, use https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/http-basic-auth as an example.

Follow the steps below.

Usernames and password can be stored inside vcl, but we'll instead store them in a [dictionary](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-dictionaries-using-the-web-interface#working-with-dictionaries-using-vcl-snippets)

!!! note

>     In order to make this example work, you must run Ibexa DXP 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In order to make this example work, you must run [[= product_name =]] 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.
```

### Create the dictionary and activate the change:

```
fastly dictionary create --version=active --autoclone --name=basicauth
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

Now, the Fastly configuration has a dictionary named `basicauth`. The benefit of using a dictionary than storing
the usernames directly in vcl is that we can add or remove records without creating and activating new versions of the configuration.

### Get the dictionary ID

To add users to the dictionary, first get the dictionary ID.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```hl_lines="5"
```

fastly dictionary list --version=active

Service ID: KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up
Version: 3
ID: ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW
Name: basicauth
Write Only: false
Created (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
Last edited (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
```

In the example above, the ID is `ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW`.

> ### Create a record in the dictionary ( user name and password )
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create a record in the dictionary

Add user's name and password to the dictionary:

```

```
fastly dictionary-item create --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW --key=user1 --value=foobar1
```

### List dictionary records

> You may see the records of a dictionary using:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may see the records from a dictionary using:
```

```
fastly dictionary-item list --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW33
```

> Now you have a dictionary storing a user name and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly .vcl configration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now your dictionary stores new user name and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly VCL configration
```

and add the basic-auth support. 

> In this example, do that using snippets (https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets ) so that no changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example, uses [snippets](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets) so that no changes
```

Author: @MagdalenaZuba Comma should be removed to, right ?

> are need in the .vcl files shipped by Ibexa DXP. You need two snippets, store these as files on your system:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are need in the .vcl files shipped by [[= product_name =]] You need two snippets, store these as files in your system:
```

declare local var.result STRING;

# We only check basic auth on edge nodes. This below logic makes sure this is only run at the edge.
if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0) {
  if (req.http.Authorization ~ "(?i)^Basic ([a-z0-9_=]+)$") {
    set var.credential = digest.base64_decode(re.group.1);
    set var.username = if(var.credential ~ "^(.+?):.+$", re.group.1, "");
    set var.password = if(var.credential ~ "^.+?:(.+)$", re.group.1, "");
    set var.result = table.lookup(basicauth, var.username, "NOTFOUND");

    if (var.result == "NOTFOUND") {
      error 401 "Restricted";
    } else if (var.result != var.password) {
      error 401 "Restricted";
    }
    #We unset the Auth header to avoid exposing this as a response header.
    unset req.http.Authorization;
    set req.http.Auth-User = var.username;
  } else {
    error 401 "Restricted";
  }
}
```

If you want basic-auth to be enabled only for one domain, you may alter `snippet_basic_auth_recv.vcl`
```diff
-if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0 &&) {
+if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && req.restarts == 0 && req.http.host == "example.com") {
```

> You install the snippets using the Fastly CLI as the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install the snippets with the following Fastly CLI command:
```

# Configure and customize Fastly

You can configure Fastly by using API calls or through the Fastly Web Interface. 
Fastly provides a [Fastly CLI](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/cli/) for configuring Fastly through its API.

Ibexa Cloud is delivered with Fastly preconfigured. 

> It means that you don't have to do any changes to the Fastly configuration in order to make your site work. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It means that you don't have to do any changes to the Fastly configuration to make your site work. 
```

The information provided here is only applicable if you want to change the default Fastly configuration on Ibexa Cloud, 
or if you are not using Ibexa Cloud and want to configure Fastly to work with [[= product_name =]] on premise.

!!! note "The Fastly Web Interface is not available for Ibexa Cloud"
    It's recommend for Ibexa Cloud customers to use the Fastly CLI instead of using the Fastly API directly with `curl`, and so on.

## Getting Fastly credentials from Ibexa Cloud installation

> In order to use Fastly CLI or Fastly API directly, you need to obtain the credentials for your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Fastly CLI or Fastly API directly, you need to obtain the credentials for your site.
```

> To obtain the cridentials connect via SSH to your Fastly-enabled environment (for example, production or staging) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To obtain the credentials, connect through SSH to your Fastly-enabled environment (for example, production or staging) and
```

type the command:

```bash
declare|grep FASTLY
FASTLY_KEY=...
FASTLY_SERVICE_ID=...
```

Note that these credentials will be different for your production and staging environments. When configuring the
Fastly CLI, use the credentials for the environment you want to change.

You may also notice difference in environment variable names.

> [[= product_name =]] uses the `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_KEY` variables but you may ecounter `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_API_TOKEN` in your configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[[= product_name =]] uses the `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_KEY` variables but you may encounter `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_API_TOKEN` in your configuration.
```

!!! note "Varnish needs to be disabled when using Fastly"
    Varnish is automatically provisioned on Ibexa Cloud. Varnish needs to be disabled on all environments which use
    Fastly. See [documentation on how to do that](https://docs.platform.sh/guides/ibexa/fastly.html).

## Quick setup of Fastly to use with [[= product_name =]]

> Use commands below to install VCL configurtion required for running Fastly with [[= product_name =]].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use commands below to install VCL configuration required for running Fastly with [[= product_name =]].
```

> You also need to set up domains, https and origin configuration (not covered here).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You also need to set up domains, HTTPS and origin configuration (not covered here).
```

> All commands are explained in detail later on this page:

Reviewer 2: Instead of "later on this page" add a link to the anchor:

"All commands are explained in detail in the [Section title](#section_header) section."

fastly vcl snippet create --name="Re-Enable shielding on restart" --version=latest --priority 100 --type recv --content=vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/snippet_re_enable_shielding.vcl
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

!!! note "None of the steps above are needed when using Ibexa Cloud as this is then preconfigured for you"

## Quick introduction to the Fastly CLI

The Fastly configuration is versioned, it means that when you want to alter the configuration, you'll create a new version
and activate it. You may then at any point revert back to the previous version if needed.

### List configuration versions

``` bash hl_lines="10"
fastly service-version list
NUMBER  ACTIVE  LAST EDITED (UTC)
1       false   2023-07-03 10:01
2       false   2023-07-03 10:35
3       false   2023-07-03 11:00
4       false   2023-07-03 11:28
5       false   2023-07-03 10:58
6       false   2023-07-03 11:59
7       false   2023-07-03 12:13
8       true    2023-07-03 12:13
```

In the example above, version 8 is used (ACTIVE=true).

### Create a new configuration version

> A version that is ACTIVE cannot be modified. In order to change the configuration, you need to create a new version:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A version that is ACTIVE cannot be modified. To change the configuration, you need to create a new version:
```

Clone the current active version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=active
```

Clone a particular version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=4
```

Clone the newest version:

```
fastly service-version clone --version=latest
```

!!! note "The --version parameter"
    Most Fastly CLI commands have the `--version` parameter. The `--version` parameter always supports aliases like `active`
    and `latest` in additional to a specific version number.

!!! note "The --autoclone parameter"
    Most Fastly CLI commands that alter the config also supports the `--autoclone` parameter so that explicitly calling
    `fastly service-version clone` is often not needed if the `--autoclone` parameter is prefered.

### Activate version:

Activate a version with this command:

```
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

## Viewing and modifying the VCL configuration

The Fastly configuration is stored in [Varnish Configuration Language (VCL)](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/uploading-custom-vcl). By uploading custom VCL files
you can change the behaviour of Fastly.

> [[= product_name =]] ships with two VCL files that need to be enabled in order for Fastly to work correctly with the platform; `ez_main.vcl` and `ez_user_hash.vcl` (located in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[= product_name =]] ships with two VCL files that need to be enabled for Fastly to work correctly with the platform; `ez_main.vcl` and `ez_user_hash.vcl` (located in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly/`)
```

[snippets](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets). It is recommended to use snippets instead of changing
the VCL files provided by [[= product_name =]] as much as possible, making it easier to later upgrade the [[= product_name =]] VCLs.

When you use snippets, the snippet code is injected into the VCL where the `#FASTLY ...` macros are placed.
For example, if you create a snippet for the `recv` subroutine, it will be injected into the `ez_main.vcl` file on the
line where `#FASTLY recv` is found.

### List available snippets for a particular version

```
$ fastly vcl snippet list --version=active
SERVICE ID              VERSION  NAME                            DYNAMIC  SNIPPET ID
KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up    8        Re-Enable shielding on restart  false    1iJWIfsPLNGxcphsjggq

```

!!! note
    As of version 3.3.24, 4.1.6 and 4.2.0, [[= product_name =]] also requires one snippet to be installed, in addition to the custom VCLs `ez_main.vcl` and `ez_user_hash.vcl`. That snippet is by default named `Re-Enable shielding on restart`.

### Get the details of installed snippets

> You can get more information, like priority, which subroutine it is attached to (`vcl_recv`, `vcl_fetch` etc. ) and the code itself using the `--verbose` option when using the `vcl snippet list` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use the `vcl snippet list` command with the `--verbose` option you can get information such as: priority, which subroutine it is attached to (`vcl_recv`, `vcl_fetch` etc.) and the code itself.
```

```
$ fastly vcl snippet list --version=active -v
Fastly API token provided via FASTLY_API_TOKEN
Fastly API endpoint: https://api.fastly.com
Service ID (via FASTLY_SERVICE_ID): [....]

Service Version: 8

Name: Re-Enable shielding on restart
ID: 1iJWIfsPLNGxcphsjggq
Priority: 100
Dynamic: false
Type: recv
Content:
// This code should be added a snipped in your config:

> //  Name : Re-Enable shielding on restart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//  Name: Re-Enable shielding on restart
```

//  Priority: 100
//  Type: recv
//

> // Fastly CLI :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Fastly CLI:
```

Then replace `\n` in the files to get human-readable diffs:

```
cat generated_vcl_11_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_11_json_done
cat generated_vcl_12_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

Finally, you can use GNU diff to get a readable diff of the two versions:

```
diff -ruN generated_vcl_11_json_done generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

## Enabling basic-auth on Fastly.

To enable basic-auth, use [Fastly documentation](https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/http-basic-auth) as an example.

Follow the steps below.

Usernames and passwords can be stored inside the VCL file, but in this case credentials are stored in a [dictionary](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-dictionaries-using-the-web-interface#working-with-dictionaries-using-vcl-snippets).

!!! note
    In order to make this example work, you must run Ibexa DXP 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.

### Create the dictionary and activate the change:

```
fastly dictionary create --version=active --autoclone --name=basicauth
fastly service-version activate --version=latest
```

> The Fastly configuration has a dictionary named `basicauth`. The benefit of using a dictionary insted of storing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Fastly configuration has a dictionary named `basicauth`. The benefit of using a dictionary instead of storing
```

the usernames directly in VCL file is that we can add or remove records without creating and activating new versions of the configuration.

### Get the dictionary ID

To add users to the dictionary, first get the dictionary ID.

```hl_lines="5"
fastly dictionary list --version=active

Service ID: KlUh0J1fnw1JY1aEQ0up
Version: 3
ID: ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW
Name: basicauth
Write Only: false
Created (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
Last edited (UTC): 2023-07-03 10:33
```

In the example above, the ID is `ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW`.

### Create a record in the dictionary

Add user's name and password to the dictionary:

```
fastly dictionary-item create --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW --key=user1 --value=foobar1
```

### List dictionary records

You may see the records from a dictionary using:

```
fastly dictionary-item list --dictionary-id=ltC6Rg4pqw4qaNKF5tEW33
```

> Now your dictionary stores new user name and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly VCL configration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now your dictionary stores new username and password. The next thing to do is to alter the Fastly VCL configuration
```

and add the basic-auth support. 
In this example, do that using snippets (https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-vcl-snippets ) so that no changes
are need in the .vcl files shipped by [[= product_name =]] You need two snippets, store these as files in your system:

In `snippet_basic_auth_error.vcl`:

```
// This code should be added a snippet in your config:

> //  Name : BasicAuth error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//  Name: BasicAuth error
```

//  Priority: 100

> //  Type:error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//  Type: error
```

// This code should be added a snippet in your config:
//
// See snippet_basic_auth_recv.vcl for instructions on how to install
//

#If the status code is a 401, we serve a synthetic HTML page which displays this error to the user.
if (obj.status == 401) {
  set obj.http.Content-Type = "text/html; charset=utf-8";
  set obj.http.WWW-Authenticate = "Basic realm=MYREALM";
  synthetic {"
    <!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-html401-19991224/loose.dtd">
    <HTML>
    <HEAD>
      <TITLE>Error</TITLE>
      <META HTTP-EQUIV='Content-Type' CONTENT='text/html;'>
    </HEAD>
    <BODY><H1>401 Unauthorized (Fastly)</H1></BODY>
   </HTML>
  "};
  return (deliver);
}
```

In `snippet_basic_auth_recv.vcl`:
```
// This code should be added a snippet in your config:

> //  Name : BasicAuth recv

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//  Name: BasicAuth recv
```

---
description: Configure Fastly for use with Ibexa DXP.
---

# Configure and customize Fastly

You can configure Fastly by using API calls or through the Fastly Web Interface. 
Fastly provides a [Fastly CLI](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/cli/) for configuring Fastly through its API.

Ibexa Cloud is delivered with Fastly preconfigured. 
It means that you don't have to do any changes to the Fastly configuration to make your site work. 
The information provided here is only applicable if you want to change the default Fastly configuration on Ibexa Cloud, 
or if you are not using Ibexa Cloud and want to configure Fastly to work with [[= product_name =]] on premise.

!!! note "The Fastly Web Interface is not available for Ibexa Cloud"
    It's recommend for Ibexa Cloud customers to use the Fastly CLI instead of using the Fastly API directly with `curl`, and so on.

!!! note "Disable Varnish when you use Fastly"
    Varnish is automatically provisioned on Ibexa Cloud. Varnish needs to be disabled on all environments that use
    Fastly. See [documentation on how to do that](https://docs.platform.sh/guides/ibexa/fastly.html).

## Prepare for using Fastly locally

> These steps are not needed when you use Ibexa Cloud, because Fastly then comes preconfigured.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These steps are not needed when you use Ibexa Cloud, because Fastly is preconfigured in it.
```

The information provided here is only applicable if you want to change the default Fastly configuration on Ibexa Cloud, 
or if you are not using Ibexa Cloud and want to configure Fastly to work with [[= product_name =]] on premise.

!!! note "The Fastly Web Interface is not available for Ibexa Cloud"
    It's recommend for Ibexa Cloud customers to use the Fastly CLI instead of using the Fastly API directly with `curl`, and so on.

## Prepare for using Fastly locally

These steps are not needed when you use Ibexa Cloud, because Fastly then comes preconfigured.

### Get Fastly credentials from Ibexa Cloud installation

To use Fastly CLI or Fastly API directly, you need to obtain the credentials for your site.
To obtain the credentials, connect to your Fastly-enabled environment (for example, production or staging) through SSH and run the following command:

``` bash
declare|grep FASTLY
FASTLY_KEY=...
FASTLY_SERVICE_ID=...
```

These credentials are different for your production and staging environments. 
When you configure the Fastly CLI, use the credentials for the environment that you want to change.

You might also encounter a difference in environment variable names.

> [[= product_name =]] uses the `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_KEY` variables but you may see `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` and `FASTLY_API_TOKEN` in your configuration.

Author: I think this has lost a bit of context... I initially wrote that the env names used by Ibexa DXP and Fastly CLI are different... now it is not clear what we mean here IMO

cp generated_vcl_11_raw generated_vcl_11_json_only
```

Next, you need to edit `generated_vcl_11_json_only` in your favourite editor, remove anything before the json data and save.
Then, follow the same steps again for version no. 12 (or whatever version you want to diff version 11 against).

Then replace `\n` in the files to get human-readable diffs:

``` bash
cat generated_vcl_11_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_11_json_done
cat generated_vcl_12_json_only |jq .content|perl -pe 's/\\n/\n/g' > generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

Finally, you can use GNU diff to get a readable diff of the two versions:

``` bash
diff -ruN generated_vcl_11_json_done generated_vcl_12_json_done
```

## Enable basic-auth on Fastly

To enable basic-auth, use [Fastly documentation](https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/http-basic-auth) as an example.

Follow the steps below.

Usernames and passwords can be stored inside the VCL file, but in this case credentials are stored in a [dictionary](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-dictionaries-using-the-web-interface#working-with-dictionaries-using-vcl-snippets).

!!! note

>     To make this example work, you must run [[= product_name =]] in version 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.

Reviewer: I think this should be "for".

>     To make this example work, you must run [[= product_name =]] in version 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.

Reviewer 3: I think "run Ibexa DXP version 3.3.16" sounds good as well

>     To make this example work, you must run [[= product_name =]] in version 3.3.16 or later, or 4.5.

Reviewer 2: > @juskora sure this "in" should be there?

That's how we address product versions in other places, too:

<img width="398" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ezsystems/developer-documentation/assets/64841871/484756c8-5d4f-4e9d-877d-633e6ced5861">
